Blog post about localizing Matterpoll (#421)
mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation: site/content/blog/2019-10-21-localizing-matterpoll/index.md

---
title: "Localizing Matterpoll"
slug: localizing-matterpoll
date: 2019-11-05T10:49:35+02:00
categories:
    - "plugins"
    - "go"
author: Ben Schumacher
github: hanzei
community: hanzei
---

> [Matterpoll](https://github.com/matterpoll/matterpoll) is a plugin that allows creating polls inside of Mattermost. Given that Mattermost is [localized in 16 different languages](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/localization.html) we surely want to accomplish the same for Matterpoll. Because we rely on contributors to do the translations we wanted to make sure it's a easy as possible for them to translate new strings and determine if already translated stings needs to be updated because the "source" text changed. On the other hand Matterpoll only has two maintainer ([@kaaka](https://github.com/kaakaa) and [me](https://github.com/hanzei)) and no own infrastructure to work with. Using some translation server like [Transifex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transifex) or [Weblate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weblate) is not an option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Matterpoll](https://github.com/matterpoll/matterpoll) is a poll plugin within Mattermost. As Mattermost is [localized in 16 different languages](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/localization.html) we'd like to accomplish the same for Matterpoll. 

Because we rely on contributors to do the translations we wanted to make sure it's as easy as possible for them to translate new strings and determine whether already translated strings should be updated because the source text changed. 

On the other hand Matterpoll only has two maintainers ([@kaaka](https://github.com/kaakaa) and [me](https://github.com/hanzei)) and no own infrastructure to work with. Using a translation server such as [Transifex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transifex) or [Weblate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weblate) is not an option.
```

Author: Could you please elaborate, why you want to break this into different paragraphs?

Reviewer: Good question. Shorter paragraphs are easier to read - a long paragraph can be off-putting. I also identified three separate ideas, which I broke up into separate paragraphs. This is also aligned with our style guide that recommends shorter paragraphs (https://docs.mattermost.com/process/sg_grammar-spelling-mechanics.html#paragraphs-and-sentences). 

That said, we can join P2 and P3 and it would align with the style guide and be quite clear.

Author: Thanks for the explanation. Will break it into shorter paragraphs :+1:

The [Mattermost Server](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server) uses the [go-i18n package](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n). The library is well maintained and very popular, which gave me confidence in using it.

> #### Choosing a version

Author: Out of curiosity: Why should this be capitalized?

> #### Choosing a version

Reviewer: It's the standard that's in our documentation style guide: https://docs.mattermost.com/process/sg_grammar-spelling-mechanics.html#capital.

> When [Translations where added to Mattermost](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/commit/8e404c1dcf820cf767e9d6899e8c1efc7bb5ca96#diff-db85c0ea4d2e69c8abaefa875ba77c51) back in 2016 the latest version of go-i18 available was [`v1.4.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v1.4.0). Since then the development has continued and [`v2.0.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v2.0.0) was released may this year. V2 has a completely different API and also the CLI tool [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-) has changed a lot. Hence, we had to make a choice: Stick with the well established V1 or use the newer V2? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When [translations were added to Mattermost](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/commit/8e404c1dcf820cf767e9d6899e8c1efc7bb5ca96#diff-db85c0ea4d2e69c8abaefa875ba77c51) back in 2016 the latest version of `go-i18` available was [`v1.4.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v1.4.0). 

Since then the development has continued and [`v2.0.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v2.0.0) was released may this year, with a completely different API. The CLI tool [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-) has also changed a lot. Hence, we had to make a choice: Stick with the well-established v1 or use the newer v2? 
```

Author: Same questions as above

> Let's dive into the difference between the to versions. In V1 translation string are define in the translation files, e.g. `en-US.all.json` would contain:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's dive into the difference between the two versions. In v1 translation strings are defined in the translation files, e.g. `en-US.all.json` would contain:
```

```json
  {
    "id": "settings_title",
    "translation": "Settings"
  }
```

> These translations would then be accessible in the go code with a translation function (`T("settings_title")`). This leads to a loose couping between the translations string in the translation file and in the code. Often developers forget to add a translation string or misspelled the id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These translations would then be accessible in the Go code with a translation function (`T("settings_title")`). This leads to a loose coupling between the translations string in the translation file and in the code. Often developers forget to add a translation string or misspell the id.
```

> V2 fixed this by defining the translations string in the code and automatically extracting it into the translation file. This greatly improves the experience for developers. Also, there are now **two** translation files for every languages. For e.g. german there is `active.de.json`, which contains already translated strings, and `translate.de.json`, which contains strings that have to be translated. They either are newly added strings or string where the text changed. `goi18n` helps with auto populating these files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In v2 this was fixed by defining the translations string in the code and automatically extracting it into the translation file. This greatly improves the experience for developers. Also, there are now **two** translation files for every language. For example, German has `active.de.json`, which contains already translated strings, and `translate.de.json`, which contains strings that have to be translated. They either are newly-added strings or strings where the text changed. `goi18n` helps with auto-populating these files.
```

> This changes is very handy for both developers and contributors and the main reason we ended up choosing V2 for Matterpoll. Other notable changes are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change is very handy for both developers and contributors and the main reason we ended up choosing v2 for Matterpoll. Other notable changes are:
```

- Better support for plural forms with options for e.g. `Zero`, `One`, `Few` and `Many`
- No global state, which helps with running tests in parallel
- Usage of [`golang.org/x/text/language`](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/text/language) for standardized behavior

> For further information please take a look at the [Changelog](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v2) of go-i18n.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further information please take a look at the [Changelog](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v2) of `go-i18n`.
```

Author: My guideline was use use "go-i18n" for the package name and `goi18n` for the CLI tool name to make the difference clear. What do you think about this?

Reviewer: That makes sense - I didn't pick up the distinction. It looks like it's standard practice to refer to it as you've stated (see: https://blog.golang.org/package-names) so I think that works.

Also, it's a good idea to stay up to date with the major version of the libraries that you are using. This way you get the latest bug fixes because open libraries don't backport fixes.

> With all this in mind it was not a hard decision for us to go with V2 of go-i18n.

Author: See https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/421/files#r344622433

> #### Choosing a file format

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Choosing a File Format
```

Author: See https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/421/files#r344621103

Reviewer: Replied on that.

> Go-i18n supports multiple file formats for the translation file. In fact you can use any file format as long as you implement an [unmarshal function](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#UnmarshalFunc) yourself. The most common formats are `JSON`, `TOML` and `YAML`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Go-i18n` supports multiple file formats for the translation file. In fact you can use any file format as long as you implement an [unmarshal function](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#UnmarshalFunc) yourself. The most common formats are `JSON`, `TOML` and `YAML`.
```

Author: See https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/421/files#r344622433

Reviewer: Replied to that.

Yet again we where faced with a decision: Which format should we use? The Mattermost server uses `JSON`, but is this a reason for us to follow this decision? `goi18n` uses `TOML` by default. We didn't wanted to dive to deep into [the comparisons between these three](https://gohugohq.com/howto/toml-json-yaml-comparison/) and stuck with `JSON`. In retrospect we might have been better sicking with the default format `TOML` of `goi18n` for consistency with the library default.

### Integrating go-i18n into Matterpoll

> With these decision made we started working on integration go-i18n into Matterpoll. But first we have to introduce three concepts that go-i18n uses (technical speaking they are just structs):

Author: See https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/421/files#r344622433

- [`Bundle`](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#Bundle): A `Bundle` contains the translations
- [`Message`](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#Message): A `Message` is a translation string and can contain plural rules

> - [`Localizer`](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#Localizer): A `Localizer` translates `Messages` to a specif language using a `Bundle`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`Localizer`](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#Localizer): A `Localizer` translates `Messages` to a specific language using a `Bundle`
```

> Because Matterpoll needs to fetch the translation files on startup, we need to include them into the plugin bundle. The Makefile of the plugin starter template allows plugin developers to just place there file into `assets` [to get them includes in the bundle](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template#how-do-i-include-assets-in-the-plugin-bundle). Since Mattermost v5.10 there is also a [`GetBundlePath()`](https://developers.mattermost.com/extend/plugins/server/reference/#API.GetBundlePath) method of the plugin API, that return the absolute path where the plugin's bundle was unpacked. This makes accessing assets much easier. The code to load the translation [looks like this](https://github.com/matterpoll/matterpoll/pull/133/files#diff-700816f9b4d51d7404d71e90d2661ddcR15-R45):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Matterpoll needs to fetch the translation files on startup, we need to include them into the plugin bundle. The Makefile of the plugin starter template allows plugin developers to just place their file into `assets` [to get them included in the bundle](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template#how-do-i-include-assets-in-the-plugin-bundle). 

Since Mattermost v5.10 there is also a [`GetBundlePath()`](https://developers.mattermost.com/extend/plugins/server/reference/#API.GetBundlePath) method of the plugin API, that returns the absolute path where the plugin's bundle was unpacked. This makes accessing assets much easier. The code to load the translation [looks like this](https://github.com/matterpoll/matterpoll/pull/133/files#diff-700816f9b4d51d7404d71e90d2661ddcR15-R45):
```

A `Localizer` is ephemeral and needs to be created every time a user interacts with the plugin, e.g. when creating a poll via `/poll` or voting by pressing an [Interactive Message Button](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/interactive-messages.html). In order to create a `Localizer` we need to fetch the user's `Locale` setting. Luckily, it's part of the [`User`](https://godoc.org/github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/model#User) struct. We wrote a short helper function to create a `Localizer` for a specific user:

```go
// getUserLocalizer returns a localizer that localizes in the users locale
func (p *MatterpollPlugin) getUserLocalizer(userID string) *i18n.Localizer {
	user, err := p.API.GetUser(userID)
	if err != nil {
		p.API.LogWarn("Failed get user's locale", "error", err.Error())
		return p.getServerLocalizer()
	}

	return i18n.NewLocalizer(p.bundle, user.Locale)
}
```

No every part of Matterpoll is localizable on a user level. Take polls for example.

{{< figure src="poll-1.png" alt="Poll 1">}}

> While the response when clicking an option should be localized with the user's local, the "Total Votes" text can not. Post are shown in the same way for every user, hence we have to use the same localization for every user. Admins can configure a [Default Client Language](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#default-client-language) in the system console that is used for newly created users and pages where the user hasn’t logged in. We decided to use this local for translating these kind of strings and build a helper for this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the response when clicking an option should be localized with the user's local, the "Total Votes" text can not. Posts are shown in the same way for every user, hence we have to use the same localization for every user. Admins can configure a [Default Client Language](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#default-client-language) in the System Console that is used for newly-created users and pages where the user hasn’t logged in. We decided to use this local for translating these kind of strings and build a helper for this:
```

```go
// getServerLocalizer returns a localizer that localizes in the server default client locale
func (p *MatterpollPlugin) getServerLocalizer() *i18n.Localizer {
	return i18n.NewLocalizer(p.bundle, *p.ServerConfig.LocalizationSettings.DefaultClientLocale)
}
```

> With this preparation we where finally ready to do the actual task: Defining and translating actual strings. Putting the pieces together is quite simple and comes down to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this preparation we were finally ready to do the actual task: Defining and translating actual strings. Putting the pieces together is quite simple and comes down to:
```

	response, err := l.LocalizeMessage(&i18n.Message{
		ID:    "response.vote.counted",
		Other: "Your vote has been counted.",
	}
	
	// Send response back
```

Most translation strings can be translated without any context information. But for example the "Total Votes" text you saw above include the number of votes. We did incorporate this information directly into the `Message`:

```go
	l := p.getUserLocalizer(userID)
	response, err := l.Localize(&i18n.LocalizeConfig{
		DefaultMessage: &i18n.Message{
			ID:    "poll.message.totalVotes",
			Other: "**Total votes**: {{.TotalVotes}}",
		},
		TemplateData:   map[string]interface{}{"TotalVotes": numberOfVotes},
	})
		
	// Send response back
```

### Extracting the translation strings

As already mentioned [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-) allow the extraction of translation string from the code into the translation file. This can be done by running
`goi18n extract -format json -outdir assets/i18n/ server/`, which creates `assets/i18n/active.en.json` containing all translation strings.

#### Adding a new language

If we e.g. want to add support for german, which has the language code `de`, we have to:

> 1. Create it's own file: `touch assets/i18n/translate.de.json`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create its own file: `touch assets/i18n/translate.de.json`
```

- Merge all translation strings into the new file: `goi18n merge -format json -outdir assets/i18n/ assets/i18n/active.en.json assets/i18n/translate.de.json`
- Translate all strings in `translate.de.json`

> - Rename it from `translate.de.json` to `active.de.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Rename it from `translate.de.json` to `active.de.json`
```

> #### Translating new strings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Translating New Strings
```

Author: See https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/421/files#r344621103

1. Extract the new goi18n translations strings: `goi18n extract -format json -outdir assets/i18n/ server/`
- Update your translation file: `goi18n merge -format json -outdir assets/i18n/ assets/i18n/active.*.json`
- Translate all strings for a language e.g. in `active.de.json`
- Merge the translations in the active files: `goi18n merge -format json -outdir assets/i18n/ assets/i18n/active.*.json assets/i18n/translate.de.json`

### Future Ideas

> This is a rough outline how plugins can use the existing framework to fully support localization. If other plugin developers adapt this approach, it might get officially supported by Mattermost. This means that the plugin framework would support translations via go-i18n.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a rough outline how plugins can use the existing framework to fully support localization. If other plugin developers adapt this approach, it might get officially supported by Mattermost. This means that the plugin framework would support translations via `go-i18n`.
```

Author: See https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/421/files#r344622433

> This is a rough outline how plugins can use the existing framework to fully support localization. If other plugin developers adapt this approach, it might get officially supported by Mattermost. This means that the plugin framework would support translations via go-i18n.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a rough outline how plugins can use the existing framework to fully support localization. If other plugin developers adapt this approach, it might get officially supported by Mattermost. This means that the plugin framework would support translations via `go-i18n`.
```

Author: See https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-developer-documentation/pull/421/files#r344622433

---
title: "Localizing Matterpoll"
slug: localizing-matterpoll
date: 2019-11-05T10:49:35+02:00
categories:
    - "plugins"
    - "go"
author: Ben Schumacher
github: hanzei
community: hanzei
---

> [Matterpoll](https://github.com/matterpoll/matterpoll) is a plugin that allows creating polls inside of Mattermost. Given that Mattermost is [localized in 16 different languages](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/localization.html) we surely want to accomplish the same for Matterpoll. Because we rely on contributors to do the translations we wanted to make sure it's a easy as possible for them to translate new strings and determine if already translated stings needs to be updated because the "source" text changed. On the other hand Matterpoll only has two maintainer ([@kaaka](https://github.com/kaakaa) and [me](https://github.com/hanzei)) and no own infrastructure to work with. Using some translation server like [Transifex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transifex) or [Weblate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weblate) is not an option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Matterpoll](https://github.com/matterpoll/matterpoll) is a plugin that allows creating polls inside of Mattermost. Given that Mattermost is [localized in 16 different languages](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/localization.html) we surely want to accomplish the same for Matterpoll. Because we rely on contributors to do the translations we wanted to make sure it's a easy as possible for them to translate new strings and determine if already translated stings needs to be updated because the "source" text changed. On the other hand Matterpoll only has two maintainer ([@kaakaa](https://github.com/kaakaa) and [me](https://github.com/hanzei)) and no own infrastructure to work with. Using some translation server like [Transifex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transifex) or [Weblate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weblate) is not an option.
```

Let me add a tiny fix about my name.

Author: My bad, thanks for the catch :+1:

---
title: "Localizing Matterpoll"
slug: localizing-matterpoll
date: 2019-11-05T10:49:35+02:00
categories:
    - "plugins"
    - "go"
author: Ben Schumacher
github: hanzei
community: hanzei
---

[Matterpoll](https://github.com/matterpoll/matterpoll) is a plugin that allows users to create polls in Mattermost. Since Mattermost is [localized in 16 different languages](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/localization.html), it’s optimal that Matterpoll is similarly localized.

> Because we rely on contributors to do the translations, we want to make it easy for them to translate new strings and determine if already translated strings needs to be updated because the "source" text changed. On the other hand, Matterpoll only has two maintainer ([@kaakaa](https://github.com/kaakaa) and [me](https://github.com/hanzei)) and no infrastructure of its own to work with. Using a translation server like [Transifex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transifex) or [Weblate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weblate) is not an option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because we rely on contributors to do the translations, we want to make it easy for them to translate new strings and determine whether already translated strings need to be updated because the "source" text changed. On the other hand, Matterpoll only has two maintainers ([@kaakaa](https://github.com/kaakaa) and [me](https://github.com/hanzei)) and no infrastructure of its own to work with. Using a translation server like [Transifex](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transifex) or [Weblate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Weblate) is not an option.
```

The [Mattermost Server](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server) uses the [go-i18n package](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n). The library is well maintained and very popular, which makes it an attractive tool for this purpose.

This blog provides an outline for developers of how plugins can use the existing framework to support localization.

#### Choosing a Version

> When [Translations where added to Mattermost](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/commit/8e404c1dcf820cf767e9d6899e8c1efc7bb5ca96#diff-db85c0ea4d2e69c8abaefa875ba77c51) in 2016, the latest version of go-i18 available was [`v1.4.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v1.4.0). In May of this year [`v2.0.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v2.0.0) was released. V2 has a completely different API and the CLI tool [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-) has changed significantly. Hence, we had to decide whether to stick with the proven v1 or use the newer v2. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When [Translations where added to Mattermost](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/commit/8e404c1dcf820cf767e9d6899e8c1efc7bb5ca96#diff-db85c0ea4d2e69c8abaefa875ba77c51) in 2016, the latest version of go-i18 available was [`v1.4.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v1.4.0). In May of this year [`v2.0.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v2.0.0) was released and has a completely different API. The CLI tool [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-) has also changed significantly. Hence, we had to decide whether to stick with the proven v1 or use the newer v2. 
```

> When [Translations where added to Mattermost](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/commit/8e404c1dcf820cf767e9d6899e8c1efc7bb5ca96#diff-db85c0ea4d2e69c8abaefa875ba77c51) in 2016, the latest version of go-i18 available was [`v1.4.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v1.4.0). In May of this year [`v2.0.0`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/releases/tag/v2.0.0) was released and has a completely different API. The CLI tool [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-) has also changed significantly. Hence, we had to decide whether to stick with the proven v1 or use the newer v2. 

Reviewer 3: Typo: `go-i18n` instead of `go-i18`.

Let's examine the difference between the two versions. In v1, translation strings are defined in the translation files; for example, `en-US.all.json` would contain:
```json
  {
    "id": "settings_title",
    "translation": "Settings"
  }
```

> These translations would then be accessible in the Go code with a translation function (`T("settings_title")`). This leads to a loose coupling between the translations string in the translation file and in the code. Unfortunately developers tend to forget to add a translation string or misspell the id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These translations would then be accessible in the Go code with a translation function (`T("settings_title")`). This leads to a loose coupling between the translations string in the translation file and in the code. Unfortunately developers tend to forget to add a translation string, or they misspell the ID.
```

> V2 fixed this by defining the translations string in the code and automatically extracting it into the translation file. This greatly improves the developer experience. In addition, there are now **two** translation files for every language. For example, German has `active.de.json`, which contains already translated strings, and `translate.de.json`, which contains strings that have to be translated. They are either newly-added strings or strings where the text changed. `goi18n` helps with auto-populating these files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is fixed in v2 by defining the translations string in the code and automatically extracting it into the translation file. This greatly improves the developer experience. In addition, there are now **two** translation files for every language. For example, German has `active.de.json`, which contains already translated strings, and `translate.de.json`, which contains strings that have to be translated. They are either newly-added strings or strings where the text changed - and `goi18n` helps with auto-populating these files.
```

Author: I would like to keep it as it is to have an emphasis on `v2`

This change is very handy for both developers and contributors and the main reason we ended up choosing v2 for Matterpoll. Other notable changes are:

- Better support for plural forms with options for e.g., `Zero`, `One`, `Few` and `Many`.
- No global state, which helps with running tests in parallel.
- Use of [`golang.org/x/text/language`](https://godoc.org/golang.org/x/text/language) for standardized behavior.

For further information refer to [Changelog](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v2) of go-i18n.

Also, it's a good idea to stay up to date with the major version of the libraries that you are using. This ensures you get the latest bug fixes because open libraries don't backport fixes.

These improvements are why we decided to go with v2 of go-i18n.

#### Choosing a File Format

> Go-i18n supports multiple file formats for the translation file. In fact, you can use any file format as long as you implement an [unmarshal function](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#UnmarshalFunc) yourself. The most common formats are `JSON`, `TOML` and `YAML`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Go-i18n supports multiple file formats for the translation file. In fact, you can use any file format as long as you implement an [unmarshal function](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#UnmarshalFunc) yourself. The most common formats are `JSON`, `TOML` and, `YAML`.
```

> What is the preferred format for us? `goi18n` uses `TOML` by default, but since the Mattermost server uses `JSON` we decided to stay with that format. We could just as easily have stuck with the default format 'TOML' of 'goi18n' for consistency with the library default with no adverse effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is the preferred format for us? `goi18n` uses `TOML` by default, but since the Mattermost server uses `JSON` we decided to stay with that format. We could just as easily have stuck with the default format `TOML` of 'goi18n' for consistency with the library default with no adverse effect.
```

### Integrating go-i18n into Matterpoll

With these decisions made we started working on integrating go-i18n into Matterpoll. But first we have to introduce three concepts that go-i18n uses (technically speaking they are just structs):

- [`Bundle`](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#Bundle): A `Bundle` contains the translations.
- [`Message`](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#Message): A `Message` is a translation string and can contain plural rules.
- [`Localizer`](https://godoc.org/github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n/v2/i18n#Localizer): A `Localizer` translates `Messages` to a specific language using a `Bundle`.

> Because Matterpoll needs to fetch the translation files on startup, they need to be included in the plugin bundle. The Makefile of the plugin starter template allows plugin developers to simply place their file into `assets` [to get them included in the bundle](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template#how-do-i-include-assets-in-the-plugin-bundle). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Matterpoll needs to fetch the translation files on startup, they need to be included in the plugin bundle. The `makefile` of the plugin starter template allows plugin developers to simply place their file into `assets` [to get them included in the bundle](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-starter-template#how-do-i-include-assets-in-the-plugin-bundle). 
```

Author: "Makefile" is a specific term.

A `Localizer` is ephemeral and needs to be created every time a user interacts with the plugin, for example, when creating a poll via `/poll` or voting by pressing an [Interactive Message Button](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/interactive-messages.html). In order to create a `Localizer`  we need to fetch the user's `Locale` setting. Conveniently, it's part of the [`User`](https://godoc.org/github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/model#User) struct. We wrote a short helper function to create a `Localizer` for a specific user:

```go
// getUserLocalizer returns a localizer that localizes in the users locale
func (p *MatterpollPlugin) getUserLocalizer(userID string) *i18n.Localizer {
	user, err := p.API.GetUser(userID)
	if err != nil {
		p.API.LogWarn("Failed get user's locale", "error", err.Error())
		return p.getServerLocalizer()
	}

	return i18n.NewLocalizer(p.bundle, user.Locale)
}
```

Not every part of Matterpoll is localizable on a user level. Take polls for example.

{{< figure src="poll-1.png" alt="Poll 1">}}

> While the response when clicking an option should be localized with the user's local, the "Total Votes" text cannot. Posts are shown in the same way for every user, hence we have to use the same localization for every user. Admins can configure a [Default Client Language](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#default-client-language) in the System Console that is used for newly-created users and pages where the user hasn’t logged in. We decided to use this local for translating these kind of strings and build a helper for this:

Reviewer: Should this be "local" (i.e., local machine) or "locale" (i.e., location/area)?

Author: Good catch. It should be `locale` :+1:

```go
// getServerLocalizer returns a localizer that localizes in the server default client locale
func (p *MatterpollPlugin) getServerLocalizer() *i18n.Localizer {
	return i18n.NewLocalizer(p.bundle, *p.ServerConfig.LocalizationSettings.DefaultClientLocale)
}
```

> With this preparation we were finally ready to do the actual task: Defining and translating actual strings. Putting the pieces together is quite simple and comes down to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With this preparation we were finally ready to do the actual task: defining and translating actual strings. Putting the pieces together is quite simple and comes down to:
```

```go
	l := p.getUserLocalizer(userID)
	response, err := l.LocalizeMessage(&i18n.Message{
		ID:    "response.vote.counted",
		Other: "Your vote has been counted.",
	}
	
	// Send response back
```

Most but not all translation strings can be translated without any context information: for example, the "Total Votes" text you saw above include the number of votes. We did incorporate this information directly into the `Message`:

```go
	l := p.getUserLocalizer(userID)
	response, err := l.Localize(&i18n.LocalizeConfig{
		DefaultMessage: &i18n.Message{
			ID:    "poll.message.totalVotes",
			Other: "**Total votes**: {{.TotalVotes}}",
		},
		TemplateData:   map[string]interface{}{"TotalVotes": numberOfVotes},
	})
		
	// Send response back
```

### Extracting the Translation Strings

> As already mentioned [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-), allow the extraction of the translation string from the code into the translation file. This can be done by running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As already mentioned [`goi18n`](https://github.com/nicksnyder/go-i18n#command-goi18n-), allows the extraction of the translation string from the code into the translation file. This can be done by running:
```
